if you're not going in the right
direction in your life and you want an
action plan that you can use gonna
change everything in your life it goes
like this
when you want success that badly you
will find a way that's what i always
tell people success
is a game of problem solving
[Music]
the sole purpose of life
is to be fulfilled to work really hard
to garner a set of skills that serve not
only yourself but other people because
you are playing a game of neurochemistry
take the time to build that desire
[Music]
let me tell you why so many people
procrastinate and experience laziness
number one the most important reason is
people just don't want it badly enough
that is the hard truth that not a lot of
people want to face but the reality is
when you're struggling to get something
done you have a desire problem there is
a very famous story that i think
perfectly encapsulates what you have to
harness if you really want to accomplish
something difficult think of somebody
drowning being held under water and
desperately wanting that next breath of
air as the person lets them up and being
dunked back under and held back up and
dunked back under every time that
they're under and they're being held
under think about how badly you want
that next breath of air you would claw
at their flesh you would tear at their
eyes if you could get a hold of it you
would flip yourself over you would go
deeper into the water to try to push
yourself back up you would do anything
including kill the person that is
holding you underwater to get your next
breath when you want success that badly
you will find a way and when it comes to
being an entrepreneur when it comes to
being successful that's what i always
tell people success
is a game of problem solving but you
have to really want to solve that
problem and the only way to really want
to solve that problem is to build your
desire so people have to understand
everything in life is a process love
is a process you go on dates i don't
believe in love at first sight lust sure
evolution took care of that for you but
nobody loves at first sight you don't
know the person well enough you haven't
done the reps you haven't gotten to know
them you haven't spent the time with
them you haven't developed
love that's why we have dating that's
why first it's dates and maybe not a lot
of commitment it's just getting to know
them and then it's like whoa we're
getting a little bit more serious and
then it's an engagement and then it's
the wedding and then it's the actual
life lived together it is a process love
even changes colors and textures as you
go so that in the beginning it's a very
lustful all-consuming drug-like effect
you can actually put somebody
in an fmri machine
and scan their brain and at the
beginning in that passionate love phase
there is no difference on an fmri
between somebody who is in love and
thinking of the person that they're in
love and somebody who's on cocaine
they are identical scans
but over time that changes into
something more mature and i would say
more wonderful more sustainable more
incredible now once you understand that
desire in and of itself whether it's for
another person whether it's for a goal
is a process of building desire then you
realize that you can go through that
process you can build up that desire so
when you think about that person having
their head held under water you can
build that level of intensity in your
life to want something so badly the only
way that you're going to do it the only
way that you're going to escape laziness
is by attaching meaning and purpose to
that thing that you want you have to
want it for a reason as simon sinek
would say you have to start with why why
do i want this thing and you're tapping
into the evolutionary drivers that you
have embedded in your brain that are
going to compel you to get better
that's a huge part of this whole process
to serve not only yourself but the group
and get to the point where you can
translate your potential into usable
skill set so when you're doing those
three things when you're transferring
your potential making it usable skill
set that's allowing you to actually make
progress it's something that you care
about and serving not only yourself but
other people now you're going to get
into this positive feedback loop that's
like falling in love you're going to be
building that desire because you're
getting good at something progress is a
foundational pillar to human happiness
if you're progressing okay this is
evolution embedding something in your
brain you have a desire to progress
period end of story if you are a human
being you have an embedded
deeply
embedded
desire
to get better you will never feel a
sense of progress you won't feel good
about yourself you will have a profound
sense of dis-ease if you're not
improving why because that was nature's
way of ensuring that you went out and
did the hard things that you would need
to do to feed your family to keep the
group intact to protect yourself from
the devastatingly vicious nature of
nature nature is doing its best to kill
you at all times okay whether it's from
starvation exposure to the elements or
being attacked by a predator we were at
risk constantly throughout our
evolutionary past and all of those
directives that nature had to give us an
implant deep in our brains to make sure
that we went out of the safety of the
cave to go get that next meal to go find
a mate to fight to raise our kids to
make sure that they had kids all of
those things that nature had to embed in
our brain still exist in us today and
they govern our wants desires behavior
so if we don't take the time to build
that up to fan those flames to get us
hyped about this thing that we want to
do for whatever reason if we don't do
that then the laziness kicks in which is
the flip side of the evolutionary coin
so side number one you better get out
you better go do something you better
hunt you better take these risks you
better protect your family you better be
a tough nut that is going to contribute
to the group otherwise you're going to
get ostracized you're going to get left
behind and you're going to die laziness
is about yo this [__] is hard finding
calories is tough you've got to go out
and forage
hunt kill chase
defend yourself against this
thing that you're trying to take down
and
once you get those calories it was a lot
of work and oftentimes you had very
little to show for it especially for
talking plant matter which from a
caloric standpoint is not very dense and
it's not like it is today where we have
farms everywhere you had to literally
hunt and forage in dangerous spaces in
order to get those calories so you had
to have a competing desire to chill so
you've got this desire pushing you
forward to make sure that you do hard
things to make sure that you're
progressing contributing getting better
but then over here you've got this weird
ass completely contradictory desire to
chill because the brain if nothing else
there are two things that just gobble
calories and that is
muscle and brain and your brain by far
is the hungriest thing in your body it's
something like two percent of your body
weight and takes up 20 to 25 percent of
your caloric intake just to run your
brain so you can imagine if you've got
muscles gobbling calories even at rest
you've got your brain just mowing
through calories to keep you alive to
leverage your intelligence then you
better have a directive embedded in your
brain that once you've gone out and done
the thing whether it's hunt
protect mate whatever that you then
relax so you're always going to have
these two competing desires it is a very
weird part of the human experience so to
overcome that laziness you've got to
have a very compelling reason to go out
and hunt especially when the grocery
store is right down the street and for
very cheap you can get plentiful
calories you can swipe left or swipe
right and decline or find a potential
mate right everything has gotten so easy
you have to have a compelling reason to
go out and do these hard things but if
you don't then you have this profound
sense of disease because again progress
is a foundational pillar of human
happiness so people procrastinate
because nature is telling them to
procrastinate they are lazy because
nature is compelling them to be lazy and
if you don't build the desire to
overcome those things if you don't build
that up walk that process do the things
that you need to do to fan the flames of
desire then you won't
you will chill
you will relax
because that's how nature designed you
so you have to go down the process of
building desire now the process of
building desire is very simple and i
will walk you through it it goes like
this you're going to tell yourself your
why i am doing this for this reason i
want this goal for this reason for me i
want to build this mega media company
because i believe
that the only way to break the
relationship between your zip code and
your success is through ideas
that it is a mindset problem a belief
problem a value system problem it is not
a money problem you can actually just by
where you live dramatically increase the
likelihood that somebody will remain
poor generationally okay that's an idea
problem that's a mindset problem it's a
it's a way to think about the problem
problem it's not an iq problem plenty of
smart people it's an idea problem since
i believe that and i believe that the
best way to get ideas across is through
story i'm building a media company to
help people people like the people that
i have known and loved that did not
succeed because they had the wrong frame
of reference now the idea of frame of
reference is beyond the scope of today's
video because i have known extraordinary
people smarter than me that did not end
up having success they could have had if
they had that right set of ideas i have
dedicated my life to building this media
company that gives me a pretty
compelling why they're people that i
know and love that i can think of when
it gets hard and i'm exhausted i'm
[__] tired and i do not want to keep
going i don't think about money i don't
think about
adulation i don't think about
recognition all i think about is those
people having a better life or their
kids having a better life and that is
what propels me forward or i flip to the
dark side and i think about the people
that want me to fail again that's maybe
outside of the scope of what we're
talking about today but i have these
things that i tap into that fan the
flames of my wanting that make me want
it badly
and when i can capture that sense of
wanting the success the way that a
drowning man wants that next breath of
air then i have the willingness to fight
to keep pushing to do the thing so i'm
gonna tell myself i'm going to tell
other people that i want this thing i'm
going to repeat it i'm going to be
saying it internally i'm going to be
saying it externally fanning those
flames and most importantly and you've
been watching me do it this whole time
i'm going to embody the emotion that i
want to feel so when i say it i don't
say it like this
i want to help
break the relationship between your zip
code and
your future success instead i say there
are people that i know and love that are
smarter than me that haven't achieved
half of what they could have achieved
because they had the wrong ideas as i
embody that and somewhat act out the
emotion that i want to feel there's a
part of my brain that everybody has that
goes
why are we getting so hyped up about
this we're getting this hyped up about
it for some reason oh that's right
because people that we know and love
have struggled in life because they
didn't have these ideas and
as my brain relates that feeling to that
story they begin to get intertwined and
now i can trigger that emotional state
simply by remembering the people that
i'm trying to help so that's
a part of the brain that you really want
to leverage so that as you think about
this you can recapture that
physiological state and when you can
change state at will simply by
remembering the kind of people that
you're trying to help or the goal that
you're trying to achieve the reason
behind it now when you get tired when
you're procrastinating when you feel
lazy you can tap into that the desire
kicks in and now you've got the juice
that you need to push forward what is up
my friend tom bilyu here and i have a
big question to ask you how would you
rate your level of personal discipline
on a scale of one to ten if your answer
is anything less than a ten i've got
something cool for you and let me tell
you right now discipline by its very
nature means compelling yourself to do
difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact i will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right i've just released a class from
impact theory university called how to
build ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work i will see you inside
this workshop from impact theory
university until then my friends be
legendary peace out
take the time it's a very simple process
take the time to build that desire tell
yourself tell other people repeat it
like crazy and then make sure that you
embody the emotion and then just repeat
repeat repeat right if you're trying to
accomplish something extraordinary in
your life there's one thing that can
really become a problem and that's
burnout now i think that most people if
i'm being quite honest are spending way
more time giving into laziness and
burnout is probably not the thing that
they have to watch out for but they are
two sides of a coin so you want to be
very thoughtful about pushing yourself
not allowing yourself to be lazy not
accepting that or tolerating that in
yourself which most people do
and it has become very fashionable to be
anti-work and i'm telling you right now
if you're anti-work if you're looking
for ways to be lazy you are going to get
your lunch [__] eaten you are going
to get mowed over because there are
people out there who understand one
immutable truth skills
have utility skills have utility okay as
kobe bryant used to say
booze
don't block dunks people can hate you
all they want but if you can out perform
them they can't stop you they cannot
stop you there were people
very
talented highly paid people that scouted
the entire globe looking for people that
could play basketball better than kobe
bryant they were paid millions of
dollars every night their sole job was
to stop kobe bryant from scoring and yet
despite that he scored 81 points in a
single game
because he got better than they were and
if you get better than somebody else you
can outperform them you can do things
they can't do skills have utility now if
you remember that and you really put
that at the core of your existence and
you push yourself and push yourself and
push yourself then you can accomplish
extraordinary things now on the journey
to doing that if you know that you are
leaving it all out on the field now you
can earn the credibility with yourself
to check to make sure that you're not
burning out burnout is a totally
separate beast burnout happens when you
become pathological about getting better
about pushing yourself and it no longer
is about what it should be about which
is an end
mental state because you are playing a
game of neurochemistry make no mistake
about it the sole purpose of life is to
be fulfilled to work really hard to
garner a set of skills that serve not
only yourself but other people if you
are doing that if you are pouring your
guts out every day doing everything that
you can to get better at something that
matters to you so that you can serve not
only yourself but other people and yes
you should serve yourself as well but
you also need to be committing
contributing to the group if you're
doing that if you are going all out
every day and achieving that level of
fulfillment then life is going to be
amazing if however
you're not focusing on that and you're
living by a set of rules that like for
instance i have rules in my life monday
through friday if i'm awake i'm either
working or working out that is a rule
that i live by unless i'm burning out
unless it's stopped being fun unless
through all of this i'm pushing myself
too hard and even though i'm doing all
of the things that i just laid out i'm
working my ass off to garner a set of
skills that allow me to serve not only
myself but other people but i hate my
life then i know that i'm burning out
and that i need to back off and let me
tell you the reason that i can have a
rule in my life that monday through
friday if i'm awake i'm either working
or working out is because i trust myself
to do two things one leave it all out on
the field i play to [__] win and i
play to win every day and number two
if i'm burning out i do less i cannot
tell you the number of times i've seen
incredible people not be able to do less
if you don't trust yourself that's a
whole nother issue that needs to be
dealt with but if you're leaving it all
out on the field and you don't have a
release valve you will burn out and you
will stop and you will actually get less
done this is like people that don't
prioritize sleep as hard as i go you'll
notice i say if i'm awake if i'm awake
because i prioritize sleep i get as much
sleep as i need it is rare i may work up
wake up to an alarm 10 times in a year i
mean it's really a vanishingly small
number of times that i will wake up to
an alarm most of the time i'm able to
just sleep as much as i want and i have
built several successful businesses all
without needing to set an alarm you
prioritize sleep you can get efficient
so you got to prioritize your mental
health i don't understand people who
don't do that you're living for the
wrong thing you're living for external
validation other people's praise you're
trying to impress your parents you're
trying to make a certain amount of money
you're mistaking something as the punch
line of life the punch line of life is
not money it's not fame it's not
recognition adulation it's none of those
things it's just fulfillment that's it
it is a neurochemical state you will
respect yourself if you're fulfilled you
will have self-worth if you're showing
up every day playing to win in a way
that serves you and other people if you
follow that fulfillment formula
everything else is going to take care of
itself unless
you don't know when to quit one of the
rules that you need to have in your life
is if you are unable to achieve
fulfillment because you're burning out
because you don't recognize that tuesday
that you just need a day off because
you've been going too hard you've been
pushing yourself too much you're
starting to get poor sleep
whatever the
triggers are for you depression is a big
one overly anxious not being able to eat
or eating too much depending on how you
deal with stress not being able to enjoy
your life not being able to enjoy the
smile of a loved one not being able to
enjoy your favorite song all of the
things like that
where you can't shift your state where
you're locked in that negativity all of
those are signs that you're burning out
if
you've been working hard because you can
have those same symptoms by being lazy
so you are going to have to structure
your life build rules be accountable to
yourself to make sure that you're
actually living up to your end of the
bargain what's your end of the bargain
you have a goal and that goal is
something that you believe passionately
about you have started with why you're
trying to do something that matters that
serves not only yourself but other
people if you're doing all of that going
all out and you're not feeling good
you're either pointed in the wrong
direction
or you're burning out so be very
thoughtful but remember
most people
fail on the lazy side they never get to
burn out be very thoughtful but if
you're really going all out
be very cautious
not to fall prey to your own rules
morning routines are one of the most
important things that you can create in
your life and the reason is when you
start the day if you get early momentum
going the rest of the day is often going
to follow in that it's an idea called
entropy everything moves towards chaos
and the only way to combat that is to
put energy into the system you are not
going to wake up and randomly have a
good day you're going to have to
structure your day in a way that sets
you up to overcome all of the entropy
all of that chaos all of the thousand
things going to come at you in on a
daily basis that are going to knock you
off course and the easiest way to do
that is to have a routine that you
follow every morning so you don't have
to think about it you don't have to
reinvent the wheel you don't have to
wonder or think about what you should be
doing it's just right there it is baked
into the routine so by doing that now
you can actually accomplish the most
important things first so the thing to
doing your morning routine well is to
optimize for what tim ferriss refers to
as the lead domino what's the thing that
if i did this it's going to make
everything else easier down the road so
number one a morning routine actually
starts the night before you want to get
plenty of sleep why because that's going
to optimize your your cognition the next
thing you want to do is either meditate
a workout typically i will work out
first the reason that i work out is
because it optimizes your cognition so
that everything else is going to get
easier it also dramatically impacts your
energy levels talk about two things that
are incredible lead dominoes if i'm
getting sleep and optimizing my
cognition if i'm working out and
optimizing my cognition and i'm making
sure that i have the energy levels that
i need to get things done now i'm really
making sure that everything that i do
after that is easier the next thing that
i do is meditate why because it
optimizes your cognition you want to
make sure that you're getting all of
your background radiation the stress the
anxiety you want to get that as close to
zero as you can that way you can think
clearly you get into what i call a calm
and creative state so the areas of your
brain that don't often communicate are
able to communicate get better ideas
that way again lee domino improving your
cognition lowering your stress levels
making sure that you're centered and
that you've got that energy to move
forward then i'm going to go down my
list of important things i make that
list the day before so i know exactly
what i should be doing at any one time
and again it's a lead domino strategy
what the first thing that i'm going to
do is going to be the thing that makes
everything else on my list easier i'm
going to do everything that i can do on
the most important thing by the way they
should always be rank ordered there is
no such thing as a tie there is a number
one a number two and number three and
number four so on and so forth there is
not two number ones there's not two
number twos there is a one two three
four five so on and so forth i do
everything that i can do on number one
once that's now where i'm waiting for
something else or you know i just have
to let it bake whatever then i'm gonna
move on to number two i'm gonna do
everything i can on number two then i'm
gonna move on to number three you set
your day up like that and you're not
checking your phone and you're not
responding to other people because
that's letting them control your
schedule and what are the odds that
somebody other than you knows better
what you should be doing to make your
goals come true than you the answer
should be zero because if somebody else
knows better than you we already have a
problem it means that somebody else is
paying more attention to your own life
than you are that would be problematic
get that morning routine down get that
momentum going do the lee domino
strategy make sure you're optimizing for
energy and cognition absolutely critical
what is up my friend you and i are
living in a golden era of
self-improvement we have books platforms
like youtube courses seminars virtual
events workshops the list really is
endless the internet has been so good
for people like you and me who want to
accomplish greater and greater things in
life and now my friend it is about to
get even better i've been spending most
of this year working on the single most
entertaining tool that you're ever going
to have around self-improvement and it
is called project kaizen it's a web3
based game experience that will be
unlike anything else you've ever engaged
with in your life partly because the
technology is new and it's amazing if
you're not familiar with blockchain nfts
and all of that kaizen is going to be
the perfect introduction for you as it
is an excellent intersection of
entertainment and learning all backed by
the blockchain we're getting closer and
closer to launching this project for you
every single day we are working our
faces to the bone to get this thing out
there and my friend i want you to
experience it so click the link on your
screen and head on over to my discord
channel to stay up to date and be one of
the first to join me inside of project
kaizen which by the way gets its name
from the japanese term of never ending
improvement all right back to today's
episode your diet is one of the most
important things you can do to boost
your energy your focus and your
productivity what you should be eating
varies wildly and i will just tell you
right now that while i'm gonna give you
a very simple thing that you can follow
and it's gonna take care of eighty
percent of all of your
desires and problems know that there is
massive
variability at the individual level and
that you should be testing a lot of
different things to find out what is
right for you so what i'm about to lay
out is the sort of generic strategy that
i think everybody should try
but getting into the nitty-gritty is
going to require you to do a lot of
testing there is no way around this i
wish that dieting was more simplistic
but based on your lifestyle based on
your heredity based on your microbiome
all of this stuff is going to dramatic
to dramatically vary so be very
thoughtful make sure you run
experimentation having said that what
are the things that i think are
universal number one you want to be
eating whole food whenever humanly
possible so you want to eat food that is
recognizable from what it was in nature
so a piece of meat should look like a
piece of meat it shouldn't be highly
processed your vegetables should look
like vegetables you should be brushing
dirt off of them that kind of
recognizable from nature nuts should be
i mean ideally raw i'll be really honest
i do sometimes eat
roasted nuts but if i'm honest that's
worse than if you're just eating them
raw so you want things that are as close
to
their natural state as humanly possible
the less that they have been
messed with manufactured altered in any
way the better off you're going to be i
will say that heat is something that i
apply to virtually all of my food there
are some really interesting theories
about from an evolutionary standpoint
that cooking is one of the things that
allowed us to grow the big brain because
by cooking it you not only soften the
food and make it easier to chew but you
also release some of the nutrients it's
beyond the scope of uh this to get into
that but when i say raw i don't mean
that everything needs to be uncooked i
just mean the less processed the better
things that i eat every day i eat a lot
of eggs red meat i eat some chicken a
bit of pork but i'm eating a fair amount
of meat so i get a good portion of my
calories from that again individual
variability if you're doing a vegan
thing word i'm totally about it test for
the individual response that you get i
find that the more plant forward i go
there's like a breaking point where i
start feeling worse could be me it could
be me doing it poorly but as long as
you're doing whole food i think you're
on the money so eating whole food and
making sure that you're avoiding sugar
that is like the big thing so i don't
think you can eat fruit with impunity i
think you have to be very thoughtful
about that if you're unsure of what
fruit is going to impact you and how i
highly recommend getting a continuous
glucose monitor that will allow you to
eat fruit if you want and see what kind
of glycemic response you have for
instance i find that i can make certain
fruit smoothies and if i eat it slowly
enough my glycemic response will go up
to about 120 i prefer to keep it in the
80s but hey if it goes up to 120 and
it's sort of even and it comes back down
i don't consider that too problematic
but if i eat it really quickly and it
spikes up to say 140 150 that to me is
problematic and i don't want to be that
high so you can play with things also
what you put in the smoothie etc if
you're going to eat
fruit and vegetables make sure that you
separate fruit
and vegetables keep those two things
distinct i think you will find by
wearing a continuous glucose monitor
that you're gonna have a dramatically
different response to most fruit than
you will to vegetables again there's a
lot of variability here so the more that
you test on yourself the better but
that's really the the sort of generic
response if your generic setup that i
think everybody should try whole food
whenever humanly possible avoid sugar
keeping your blood glucose below 100 i
highly recommend it for me i try to keep
my glucose in this the 80-ish range
that's sort of my default i also do
intermittent fasting i think that that
is very effective getting into things
like autophagy is beyond the scope of
what we're talking about right now but
even that i think is going to be huge
body composition is greatly affected by
intermittent fasting again individual
variability make sure that you
experiment with this stuff for yourself
i do when you average it out i think i
went about 18 months where i was
tracking every day my average over that
extended period of time was 17 and a
half hours so on the weekends it's it's
shorter but on the weekdays sometimes
it's longer sometimes it's 19 20 21 22
hours that i'll go uh between meals but
again over a very extended period of
time it averages out to 17 and a half
hours of not eating now the way that i
do that i have my last meal around 1 15
definitely done chewing by 2 p.m and
then i don't eat again until the next
day at around 9 9 30 somewhere around in
there shorter on the weekends longer
during the week and it it balances out
i'm having everything from
green leafy vegetables like uh bok choy
collard greens kale
broccoli
to carrot jicama
i do occasionally have some sweet potato
it'll be a little thoughtful about that
one watch your glycemic load that
definitely spikes me more than green
leafy vegetables but those are the mix
that i use again i'm eating whole foods
virtually all of my calories come from
whole food
during the week in fact i'd say 95
percent of my calories come from whole
foods it's very rare that i deviate from
that but doing that allows me to have
tremendous focus a lot of energy get the
most out of my workouts maintain my body
composition keep my fat low keep my
glycemic spikes low so i'm not getting
you know blood sugar spikes which helps
me maintain my energy through the day
and also just from a longevity
standpoint i think that's a great idea i
will say go look at david sinclair he's
got some pretty compelling information
around the fact that meat may not be
great for longevity so while it makes me
feel awesome it's something called mtor
so be thoughtful as you get into the
complex weeds of this stuff nutrition is
a very
big complex topic again the only things
that i consider universals are whole
food and reducing sugar universals close
to a universal would be intermittent
fasting though some people can have
differing responses to that so be
thoughtful as you experiment with this
stuff but if you do that like i said 80
plus percent of your problems are going
to go away that's a nice low
inflammation diet and keeping your
inflammation low is incredibly important
the way that i've found to stay focused
be productive and not get distracted is
one by auditing my time so that i know
one what i'm supposed to be working on
and then two that at the end of any task
i'm going to reflect back on how long it
took me how much time did i spend on
task and also i have rules like if i'm
working on something i don't take out my
phone i don't look at it no matter what
i have no alerts on my computer no
alerts on my phone if somebody's calling
i would never know if somebody's text me
i would never know i don't have anything
that pops up on my computer you want to
eliminate distractions i don't even work
facing a window i will go into a room
and i will intentionally face myself
away from a window there was one period
of my life the only reason i stopped
doing this is because i think it's
really important to get daylight in your
eyes but i was putting myself in a dark
room and literally with a stand-up desk
was the only thing between me and a wall
so even though i was in a nice expansive
beautiful room i was putting myself
facing the wall so that there was
nothing for me to even look at that i
want to be working on the thing that i'm
trying to accomplish and the other thing
is that's hugely important is to make
sure that you care about what you're
working on the number of people that
don't give a [__] about what they're
doing with their life is terrifying and
when you don't care about what you're
working on there's no meaning or purpose
behind the thing that you're trying to
do then of course it's going to be
harder to stay on track of course you're
going to be looking for that dopamine
hit from your phone from that email
because working on the thing that you're
working on doesn't give you the dopamine
hit making sure that you're pursuing
things that you care about that's a huge
part of it so caring about what you do
making sure that you're optimizing your
environment to minimize distractions and
then having rules about things like not
checking your phone not letting yourself
wander off like for instance i won't
even let myself go get a drink of water
until i've accomplished a certain thing
that i'm trying to do and i will find
myself taking like that first step to go
get a drink of water you're on autopilot
you need some drip of dopamine when
you're working on something that's
boring or difficult but then the rule
kicks in and i remind myself ah yes i'm
going to finish this thing and then i
make sure that i reward myself for doing
that hard work so when you're doing hard
work in service of something that you
really believe in that you're really
emotionally connected to your why now
all of a sudden with some rules put in
place it becomes easy to stay there and
get your stuff done and then on top of
that i know when to give a break to go
get a drink of water or something like
that to get up to walk around all of
that stuff is incredibly important to
make sure that you're able to stay on
task a big thing maybe the biggest of
all is personal standards you got to
have standards i see people accept the
lamest [__] from themselves and they let
themselves get away with not being
productive wasting an entire day before
they call themselves out or worse
staying at a job that they don't care
about doing something that doesn't mean
anything to them just to collect a
paycheck and i get how people would be
unable to stick with something but let
me promise you your life will pass you
by in an instant not only is tomorrow
not guaranteed tonight isn't guaranteed
so if you're not working at something
that you really care about that means
something to you your life is going to
pass you by make sure you're focused on
things you care about you're eliminating
distractions and you're rewarding
yourself when you crush it then just
make sure you out of your time you
should be ready to rock if you fall into
a rut and you want to get out of it the
first thing that you have to do is be
honest with yourself that you're in a
rut so often i see people not wanting to
admit that things are not going the way
that they want them to go whether it's
because they're trying to keep up with
the joneses or they have low self-esteem
and they're really struggling and so
they're trying to tell themselves a
story that isn't true because they're
building their self-esteem around being
right being good being talented whatever
all of those fragile things and so
they're not willing to stop take a good
hard look at whether or not they're
making the kind of progress that they
want to make now my advice is to switch
what you build your self-esteem around
so that you're building your self-esteem
around not being right or smart or good
that you're building your self-esteem
around the very willingness to look at
whether or not you're making progress
recognize that you're not making
progress and make a change and get
moving again but that's the key to
really be honest with yourself to audit
that time to make sure that you really
are making progress and to not be angry
upset or diminish your sense of self
because you're in a rut but instead be
proud of yourself for
really being willing to assess where am
i at
what am i trying to accomplish am i
actually making progress and that
willingness to stare nakedly at your
inadequacies to really be honest about
whether you're making progress to be
honest about whether you're
improving enough at something to be
honest about whether you're working hard
enough at something all of those things
are incredibly important but you'll
never be honest with yourself if in
recognizing that you're underperforming
if you just beat yourself up you want to
recognize your underperforming and be
proud of yourself for recognizing that
you're underperforming and being willing
to do something about it if you build
your self-esteem around that now you
have that self-reinforcing engine that
you're going to need to get moving again
but first it starts with acknowledging
the problem being pristine
on prepping for bed i think is
incredibly important getting good
quality sleep is critical so there are
several things that i do number one
i wear myself out during the day i'm
going all in on the things i'm trying to
accomplish so man at the end of the day
i feel like i've earned my sleep and
that idea of earning your sleep the idea
of earning your days off of earning a
vacation something that is incredibly
rewarding remember we're only pursuing
things that we care about that mean
something to us we have the strong why
the strong attachment to not only us but
the people that we're trying to help but
then going all out for it so that by the
end of the day i've worked out i've
eaten right i've been disciplined i've
worked my ass off i stayed focused i've
pushed myself i've avoided distractions
i've left everything out on the field
trying to move myself forward going down
my important things list taking things
one at a time really pushing the ball
forward not just chasing dopamine but
actually trying to do something so by
the time i get to bed i am worn out the
next thing i do is starting about three
hours before bed so for me because i go
to bed at nine like it's a religion i'm
putting blue blocking glasses on at 6 pm
you want to make sure that you're not
even around very bright light so i start
dimming the lights towards the evening
time not exposing blue light into my
eyes really helps with circadian rhythm
in the morning i try to get outside and
actually get direct sunlight into my
eyes that does not mean staring at the
sun just means looking up at the sky
being outside letting all of that
natural light get on your skin getting
your eyes it's going to be a huge part
of setting that circadian rhythm for
about i stop checking my text messages
usually about two hours before i go to
bed reason is that the most stressful
things in my life come in via text
message so i know better so i try to
stop that two hours before definitely an
hour before because it's going to take
me time to sort of recalibrate my mind
one thing i'm always telling people is
the reason that i'm able to work as much
as i work to endure as much stress as i
endure is i'm very good at
compartmentalizing when i have something
stressful i take it and sort of code it
in the things that i'm going to do to
deal with that because action cures all
so earlier in the day if i get something
really stressful if i can get the ball
rolling then all is well i get things
going i know that that problem is going
to be solved my brain goes ah we're in
action mode all is well i can deal with
this as we get later in the night i'm
not going to be able to do the things
that i need to do to get it moving which
means that my brain is going to worry on
it all night so i've got to do something
to compartmentalize that to figure out
what my strategy is going to be and then
i put that thing away now it takes some
time so i'd rather not encounter that an
hour before i go to bed right so like i
said about two hours before i go to bed
i'm gonna stop looking at my text
messages so i'm going to keep working
i'm going to execute on the things that
i'm working on but i'm going to try to
compartmentalize that so that i'm not
introducing new things that i have to
come up with a new strategy for the next
thing is about an hour before bed i now
only work on things that i find fun so
that that's moving my brain into like oh
this isn't stressful this is actually
enjoyable this is fun so i do a lot of
my research for episodes that i'm going
to be filming at night because i love it
that's one of the most fun things about
my job is getting to learn something new
so i can do research right up until the
moment that i go to bed so that's
something that i'll save for that time
if i don't have an episode coming up and
i want to keep working then again i'm
going to focus on something that i find
enjoyable which for me often means that
i'm working on storytelling or something
along those lines because it's really
really pleasurable and then about a half
an hour before i go to bed uh i'll be
listening to something but i just start
my night routine i'm going to be
brushing my teeth in sort of a
meditative fashion really relaxing i'm
not listening to anything that's going
to be stressful doing things that are
chill if i've had a really stressful day
i might even sit down and meditate for
the last 15 or 20 minutes before i go to
bed and then when i'm actually going to
bed i go into storytelling mode so the
great news is for me that actually works
for work as well but i'm putting in
headphones
i might start listening to an actual
book if i don't have a story that i'm
trying to work on i start listening to a
book a fiction book puts my brain in a
different space and if i've worked right
up until the moment i go to bed at that
point i will still put a fiction book on
right as i'm going to sleep and i have
learned an incredible technique that
allows me to deal with stress i'm not
necessarily suggesting that people push
themselves this far if you find yourself
at night having a hard time falling
asleep this works unbelievably well i
don't have a trick that works better
than this this this is the closest thing
to magic that you're going to get i put
my air pods in i put on a fiction book a
book that doesn't have murder or
anything like that cause i don't want to
hear screaming and yelling i made that
mistake so i've run that test it does
not work well i will put a book on it's
usually
great narrator and i turn the volume
down so i can just barely make out what
they're saying just a little bit of
pressure to my ear in order to clearly
hear what they're saying and then i
apply that pressure and i leave the book
running i don't put a timer i let it go
and then i fall asleep and then the
pressure comes off my ear and now
i can no longer make out what they're
saying so as i'm drifting off to sleep i
lose the words that are being said but
my brain has gone out of problem-solving
mode into story mode narrative mode i'm
able to relax and fall asleep all by
listening to that story i forget about
the things that are stressing me in the
day then if i wake up in the middle of
the night i will swap out my headphones
so that the battery doesn't die because
that little beeping noise telling you
that you have low battery will wake me
up again learned that the hard way
and then again it's just as i'm trying
to fall back asleep i put a little
pressure on my ear so i can hear it and
then the story
takes me back into dreamland and i sleep
i went through a phase where i was
really struggling to sleep man i tried
everything and finally figuring that
system out
works like a charm i use 1.4 x everybody
knows i like to listen to things at 3x
but i can't do that if i'm trying to
fall asleep i found the perfect rate
where my brain doesn't have to struggle
to listen but the words are coming in
fast enough that the pauses don't
irritate me put it in pressure good
story good narrator boom i'm off to
sleep if you do all of those sleep
hygiene things
you ought to sleep like a baby oh and
keep the room cool get a chili pad if
you don't have ac
they're not the cheapest thing in the
world but they are worth every penny
making sure that your room is cool or
that you are cool on a chili pad makes a
huge difference so make sure that you do
that and then get your room as dark as
possible when you're sleeping personally
i know this is going to freak some
people out i sleep with the blankets up
over my head to ensure complete darkness
uh so my wife and i don't share blankets
which is another thing that i recommend
which everybody thinks that i'm crazy i
forget now that that's even a thing
because i told my wife from the jump
we're never going to share blankets hope
you're okay with that forever we have
slept with several blankets that way i
can wrap myself up in mine i never have
to worry about her stealing them or me
stealing them from her and all of those
things allow me to sleep like a baby
night after night even in the middle of
stress won't say that it never happens
where i'm so stressed that i wake up is
pretty rare because of all the things
that i do for sleep hygiene if you're
not going in the right direction in your
life and you want an action plan that
you can use you can just try it for the
next seven days it's going to change
everything in your life it goes like
this follow the morning routine plan
that i laid out before plenty of sleep
perfect sleep getting up working out
meditating intermittent fasting
important things absolutely critical
getting your diet right the number of
people that are in pain that don't
realize that they have brain fog that
don't realize that there's just a
general sense of suck in their life
because of their diet once you clean
that up get that right get your
inflammation down get your stress and
anxiety down which is also majorly
impacted by your diet getting your sleep
right your energy levels are going to
feel awesome because your diet's there
because your sleep is there
meditation changing the game so you're
going to do all of the things that i
talked about in that morning routine and
then the next thing that i will add to
that human connection
find a loving relationship and put time
into it find a loving relationship and
put time into it even though i have a
rule monday through friday if i'm awake
i'm either working or working out but
you will note i'm involved in
storytelling so i'm around things like
anime and manga and i'm talking about
stories i'm interviewing incredible
people so my job even though it's hard
even though it's a lot of hours it's
doing things that i love and care about
in service of people that i'm trying to
help and
i'm doing it with my wife my best friend
the person that i care most about in the
world everything that you're striving
for everything that you're trying to do
and accomplish if you don't have people
that you love and care about and that
you're spending time with it's all for
naught we are a social creature so
optimize your
sleep optimize your diet optimize your
exercise and all of that is going to
take care of your cognition and your
energy levels and your general feeling
of well-being which comes largely from
your diet exercise and sleep and love
and if you're doing all of that in a
package and the thing you're working
towards really matters to you and to the
world
it's about as good as it gets that to me
is truly a life well lived so if you do
that for the next seven days i promise
you you'll do it for the next ever
because it is so awesome all right guys
i wish you nothing but the best trust me
an amazing life is yours to be had if
you can break out of the procrastination
routine if you can make sure that you're
taking action in service of things that
really matter to you and you're
progressing all the time and you're
surrounded by people you love right
everybody speaking of things you will
love if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care peace
what gets really interesting and this is
something
most scientists don't even know about
yet is level three the deep layer of
aging
there's actually a dna clock that tells
our bodies how old we are we i could
take your blood and read it
and i could tell you roughly when you're
gonna die